#summary Instructions on how to build the source

*WARNING*
This stuff isn't polished for wide public consumption. So there are no easy configure scripts or easy ways to point at an update site way to install the eclipse plugin. Sorry.

*REQUIREMENTS*
You must have Eclipse 3.4.1
You must also be running Java 6 or higher

*DETAILS*
  * Open Eclipse, create a new workspace.
  * Go to Window->Open Perspective->Other (Choose SVN Repository Exporing)
  * Add a new repository: http://piston.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
  * Browse to trunk and find the four folders:
    * pistonmonkey - C++ app that embeds tracemonkey and supports being debugged
    * pistondebugger - The actual eclipse plugin code for debugging javascript in eclipse
    * pistondocs - Piston's available JS API's are documented here. See pub/index.html
    * sandbox - A collection of assorted stuff
  * Select these four folders, right click and choose 'Check Out'

Each of these folders is an eclipse project.

*pistonmonkey*
  * To build this you'll need the 'Eclipse C/C++ Development Tools' and Platform plugins installed
    * Menu: Help->Software Updates, go to the 'Available Software' tab
    * Expand to and check this: Ganymede Update Site->C and C++ Development
    * Click 'Install...' on the right. Install any needed pre-reqs, restart eclipse.
  * Window->Open Perspective->Other (C/C++)
  * At this point you probably have a large number of build errors in the 'Problems' view (Window->Show View->Problems)
  * Locate pistonmonkey/libs folder
    * Notice you have four sub directories, curl, libevent, nspr, tracemonkey
    * Each one of these needs a 'debug' directory in it
    * This directory should point to the location where each of the libs libs and include files can be found
    * These may be installed on your system (/usr/local or /usr/lib) or you can download and build them yourself in any directory you want (This is what I do)
    * To build them yourself, follow the steps: http://piston.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/sandbox/libs_info.txt
  * Once you get the 'debug' folders pointed to the right place for each of the needed items, doing a 'Project->Clean' should result in a build with zero errors. Woot!
  * You can now run pistonmonkey or debug javascript with it with the debugger.

*pistondebugger*
  * To 'run' the piston debugger (an eclipse plugin) you'll need to have the 'Eclipse Plugin-in Development Environment' installed in your Eclipse.
    * Menu: Help->Software Updates, go to the 'Available Software' tab
    * Expand to and check this: Ganymede Update Site->Java Development->Eclipse Plugin-in Development Environment
    * Click 'Install...' on the right. Install any needed pre-reqs, restart eclipse.
  * Window->Open Perspective->Other (Plugin-in Development)
  * Select the pistondebugger project    
  * With any luck this project won't have an build errors in the 'Problems' view (Window->Show View->Problems)
  * Window->Run Configurations...
  * Select the 'Piston Debugger' under the 'Eclipse Application' category. Hit Run
  * With luck another eclipse will start. And now you can run the debugger. See the Overview on DebuggerProtocolDetails